Nan Abu Jared his wife and children are
getting used to a new life in Rafa in
southern
Gaza a makeshift tent is home for eight
family members for the foreseeable
future they were forced to move from
Beth hanon in Northern Gaza due to
Israeli air strikes but life here is a
struggle they spend their day waiting in
lines for what food and water they can
get and searching for basic
necessities
We Begin our day and my role is lighting
the fire with women kneading the bread
and others washing the dishes another
one washing the clothes after preparing
the bread we have breakfast and then we
line up for water of course salty water
from a place that's a bit far
out tens of thousands of displaced
Palestinians are in a similar situation
more than half of gaza's 2.3 million
population has crowded into its
Southernmost city that's after Israel
designated the region a safe Zone and
yet went on to bomb
it un shelters are crowded Beyond
capacity many people are pitching tents
anywhere they can find including along
roads the world fruit program says its
system of supplying basic necessities to
Gaza is on the verge of collapse leaving
displaced families left to fend for
themselves I'm a mother of six girls and
maybe that makes said difficult for me
to get food or even water the water
containers are heavy for the girls to
carry also our ability to get firewood
is limited because my husband is the
only one who is able to carry
it in recent days 100,000 more displaced
Palestinians have arrived in Rafa the
Israeli military says it's expanding
ground operations targeting areas in
Central and Southern
Gaza families live in fear of ongoing
air strikes and the the growing threat
of illness and
disease the UN says nowhere is safe in
The besieged
Strip as the new year begins most
displaced Palestinians have one
wish my wish for the new year 2024 is
for the occupation to disappear its
existence is the cause of the problems
Rafa was the last place of Refuge for
displaced Palestinians but now many fear
they could be forced from Gaza for good
mulsum Sharif Al
jaer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer